is China collapsing are the bricks
Nations actually about to take over the
world or is there something more to the
story you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you I'm going to show
you what's going on I'm going to give
you both sides of the equation and I'm
going to tell you exactly what you need
to know not what you want to hear that's
what we do here we get into the cold
hard truth so if you'll join me we'll
begin with this West's 500-year
dominance is ending according to lavro
the foreign minister of Russia he had a
few things to say including the 500y
year long dominance of the West is
coming to an end being replaced by a new
polycentric world we were discussing the
multi-polar world it's emerging after
500 years of domination of what we call
the collective West during this meeting
they're talking in Doha and of course
this is a period of time in which there
has been a big change and a growing
divide in between the west and the East
and so we can see that These two
factions these two sides have formed and
now we are in the New World some have
suggested that it's going to be China at
the front and center others have said no
way they are not going to convince many
people to get on board with them what
I'm seeing what we keep hearing about is
the multi-polar world and often times
right now in the media as well as what
they've said themselves is the global
South all right now with that I want to
show you something you could see it that
these are the fastest growing economies
in
2023 look around the world did you think
Libya would be one of those economies
and now we have Guyana as well and
certainly with Guyana coming in the news
with everything that's been happening
with Venezuela it's something to note
but the point here the reason I
mentioned this is that we look around
the world and do you see Canada on that
list the United States or the UK or what
about
Australia no they're not and likely
won't be included in the fastest growing
economies for the foreseeable future
usually what happens is we have these
emerging economies they grow fast maybe
they have higher inflation maybe a
little bit of turmoil but they grow and
grow and grow and at some point they
begin to mature and that growth starts
to slow down maybe their population gets
too old things happen we have seen this
before so we have to start asking the
questions of what is going on here is
this a bump in the road or is that
likely it the growth is now no longer
there and countries become Japan where
it's just a decline and inevitable and
unable to ever get out of that unless
something major changes a lot is
happening today and I want to bring you
some of the intricacies because it's
going to tell you what's happening for
yourself as well and how you're going to
be drastically impacted by the changes
we see today us companies are finding it
hard to avoid China you could see this I
know this very clearly and intimately
because when you try to Source a product
I would like you to give it a try Source
a product from somewhere anywhere and
you will find that if it's not actually
manufactured in China it's probably
being manufactured in China if you
understand what I'm trying to say here
one way shape or form did you know that
the factories if you remember during
2020 early early on in 2020 if you know
what I'm trying to say we heard okay
something was happening inside of China
but also in the northern East
northeastern part of Italy hm that's odd
why there well they happen to have a lot
of factories there those factories owned
and operated by the same people inside
of China where the epicenter
was this so-called made in Italy well
technically within the borders but no
different than if it was made in that
other
country in addition to that you look at
all the components that are part of any
Goods that we buy today and China's got
its hands on it now if you want to
change that if you want to make this say
okay we want to do away with that we
want to go in a different direction if
you're Apple you can invest billions and
billions of dollars and start to slowly
steer that chip but if you're a small
and mediumsized business you can't do
that because you don't have billions to
start opening up the factories getting
the ports set up getting all the
logistics you can't do that that that
needs to take time and time and time in
order to make that happen right now
today not possible okay you can get
stuff manufactured in the United States
for instance you will pay much much more
for that and I'm talking much more and
at a time in which people are struggling
finding it difficult it isn't a very
real possibility just stay in business a
lot of times when people are struggling
as it is so that's what we see and
that's why there has been such dominance
but remember this was done intentionally
shipping the jobs overseas was not an
accident my friends can China get its
economic Miracle back on track in 2024
certainly there are so many problems
going on of course you've got the real
estate you've got the debt and you've
got the shadow banking system which I
talked about new numerous occasions but
one after the other this has been a very
big issue for China to try and grow out
of something when there just is no
growth at the same time the world is
either in a recession or avoid trying to
avoid a recession slower growth higher
interest rates not good for China being
the manufacturer of the world right at
the same time domestically Chinese
Shoppers are saving for rainy days
foreign films p P money up manufacturers
face waning demand from the West local
government finances wobbled property
developers
defaulted so we see that
model that model of China can grow
forever we're the engine of the world
we're going to make this happen but then
the whole thing shut down for you know
arguably more than two
years and that presented an issue for
the entire thing and that's why you
started to have ever Grand Country
Garden these things started to Tumble
because all of that which was in line
before it started to encounter some
problems and so this is what China has
to try and get out of but it's not so
easy heavily indebted poor countries you
could see the total loans from China so
these countries here whether it's Ghana
you look down the list they have this
infrastructure that China's working on
they're building they're taking loans
from China and they owe China a lot so
are they going to be able to pay back
well this is what they've talked about a
lot Africa is heavily in debt to China
we will see what happens there but I'm
not sure of how that's going to unfold
but just know that there's creditors and
debtors and certainly we see that China
has been a creditor Nation to countries
overwhelmingly um in Africa so we see
that now so it's it there's a lot of
nuance here if you see that right
China's economy is heading deeper into
deflation and so they do have these
aspects where yes they're creditor
nation that is a strength of any country
but at the same time they've got their
own problems to worry about where they
had tried to create some level of
stimulus but still uh you know going
into a deflationary circumstance um is
an issue for China okay so you'll see
that right here where basically core CPI
inflation remain weak likely reflecting
sluggish domestic economic momentum in
the near term according to Goldman Sachs
they need to get that fixed if they want
to grow but that's the problem how can
they do that right now at this time when
there just isn't the demand you have to
have real demand you can't just you know
snap your fingers and create growth you
can't do that when you have millions and
millions and millions of empty homes
already with nobody not even an investor
willing to just throw their money in to
park that somewhere that's what's going
on that's what has uh come up in these
last little while and very evident over
the last year the opportunity is the
current property crisis nearly all major
private Builders including the giant
ones like everr and Country Garden have
defaulted on their m massive debts
leaving the construction of a large res
residential projects the later stalled
and I've seen and you've probably seen
that too where they just Dynamite the
whole thing and that's it okay I guess
they're just taking back the concrete
taking back the copper there isn't an
official P of Unfinished homes but they
think it's about 20 million units
Nationwide I have heard uh numbers
larger than that who knows it's Millions
okay it's millions and millions of them
it would cost 400 $40 billion to
complete them all so you'll see that
here unsold properties um you know in
terms of square meters we've actually
been higher before but we'll see you
know nobody really knows what the real
numbers are come on let's be honest uh
but that's basically just going into
depth into that and we have this back in
fourth between the United States and
China and it continues uh China's ban on
Apple iPhone accelerates so this goes
into any state-backed company they can't
bring it so they can own it they could
own the phone but you can't bring it
into work so what's I mean what are
people going to do obviously they're
they're not going to they don't want to
get in trouble I'm I'm sure they don't
want to get in trouble there so maybe
they'll just you know use a different
phone that they're not going to have an
issue with that they can bring into work
that they can actually communicate with
their family friends and so on and so
that will have an impact materially on
Apple sales because remember apple is a
company biggest company in the world
Apple's a company that doesn't just sell
to the United States or just into Europe
they're a global company and if you
can't get as many buyers out of China
because State backed companies that's a
lot of companies it's not just the
government workers so we can see this
back and forth here and there's that
divide so I see from the Middle East and
East that's pretty much one faction and
then you have you know the West being on
the on the rest of that it's not
necessarily you know bricks and so on
although over time that's changing that
is changing big time and what that means
is that your future is going to look
very different there's no question about
that and we need to start asking the
right questions of number one is where
I'm living the right place and number
two is what's my backup plan
what is my backup plan do I have a way
out or is it simply I'm just going to
stay I'm just going to wait and that's
it you should definitely have a plan B
and you should also have a plan C but I
think a lot of people they are just
simply ignoring it hope for the best and
so on I think we got a plan for the
worst and hope for the best China's
surging steel exports risk new round of
trade tensions once again this is more
back and forth and we will see that
continue on although you know we did
have some positivity recently but
there's been some talk about uh you know
that's didn't really work out the way
that China's leader had hoped when he
came into California who knows it's all
speculation of course but here we have
it looking at um basically just saying
that with China and the way that things
have worked more
recently the lowcost sort of environment
is an issue for deflation so China's
always trying to undercut on prices
that's a problem when you're in a
situation where you have deflation you
want to create more inflation higher
prices higher wages higher higher higher
that's the growth that shows up in the
GDP reports that's what they want to see
but you've got this other issue here
where they can't handle that anyway this
is what's happening right now and the
biggest concern for China is that
deflation becomes entrenched they can't
stimulate growth they can't stimulate uh
consumption domestically if they're in
that circumstance they have slower
growth and then other countries can grow
Beyond them and they can become more
dominant and who knows where their
alliances will be you see if you're a
growing economy if you're India for
instance and you're looking around the
world and you're saying I got to do
business I got to do trade with one
country maybe that's Russia maybe that's
you know somebody in the Middle East
right United Arab Emirates Saudi Arabia
and you're saying I've got to do
business with these different countries
and so if I don't necessarily have
anything against a particular country
you know no issue I'll do business with
you I'll do business with you but as
time goes on you want to have friendly
relations with those who are going to
grow
more because that's going to benefit
your people right if you're the leader
of that economy you would say you know
the more trade we do with this country
well then that means we can export more
to them and then my country is going to
benefit from that so yeah I want to do
business with them and you want to do
things for your people and that's what I
see with what's happening with Saudi
Arabia and what's happening United Arab
Emirates and so on that's what the whole
new bricks the new um elements of the
bricks they made it very clear they want
to export more oil but if China's demand
has weakened they don't need as much of
the stuff they did before this is the
Dilemma this is the concern and I want
to know what you think if you found this
informative hit that Thumbs Up Button
because doing so supports me and it
notifies the algorithm that this is some
interesting stuff and I think the
Dynamics here are wild are wild what's
going to happen do you have any idea I
mean this is interesting when we look at
it at each step of the way what I would
love you to do is to check out my free
course Compass over 1,000 people have
made it through this course totally free
financial education is no longer you
know beyond with with The Gatekeepers
and you got to go to you know school for
all these things you get it right here
for free no email needed no pay wall no
nothing it's all available at themoney
gps.com all I ask is you hit that thumbs
up button to support me and of course I
want you back here tomorrow I'll see you
then take care